hello everyone what I've got here in
front of you at the moment is the iDrive
system from a BMW 1-series
and what you can see here is the
lightning adapter for an iPhone 5 so
it's very very small as the old 30-pin
connector on the bottom to the 9 pink
and connector on the top and 3 MW owners
will know specific B&W owners will know
that their car will normally require a
white cable to be able to plug in to
your iPhone for your iPhone 3 whatever
else to be able to play your music
through the iDrive system on the car
which is a USB socket down there and an
auxilary input but of course this socket
is no longer applying to the iPhone 5
and future Apple products so what do you
do well the theory is that you supposed
to get one of these lightning adapters
which again is this little baby here and
to solve the problem but I'm going to
show you whether it works or not so
first of all in this like I said it's a
BMW 1-series
and there is the current multimedia
update version on the car which I
believe as of today's date which is
October I can't even remember like the
sixteenth or something let me move along
17th on 2012 that's the latest
multimedia update for the software and
we're going to check and see what
happens if it works so there we go those
external devices you've got reading our
auxilary front so to test off what I'm
going to do first of all is because I'm
recording this on an iPhone 4 I'm going
to show you this all iPod Classic and so
excuse me for a second while I one
handedly try to plug in the device and
as I do that will shift to this and
we'll see what happens
it says reading 60 gigabyte iPod Classic
and it will probably start to play
I leave this down to the side and I
select the iDrive system to go in and
have a look so you can probably hear in
the background it's just playing some
Foo Fighters but I can search the
artists list on the car to see what's on
there there's all kinds of rubbish on
this quite easily done so there you go
so it obviously works the white cable
works with the iPod Classic and I've
also tested it on the iPhone 4 and it
worked as well so there was no problem
with that okay so let's try it with the
iPhone 5 then let me unplug this okay
right so here's the adapter to plug it
there we go now in connected white into
the lightning adapter and nothing not
connected and I've got my iPhone 5 here
which the picture of my dog on it
wearing a sympatric stay hat which is
quite funny and I'm just going to plug
the lightning adapter in nothing as you
can see my phone is going a bit mental
saying it's charging it's not charging
discharging it's not charging it's
charging it's not charging and it'll
just sit there and do that so obviously
in this instance it does not appear that
the Lightning adapter works for the
iDrive system so let's disconnect it and
let's go the other way let's try and
plug in the lightning adapter into the
phone first
okay so it's now in the phone and we'll
try and plug in the Y cable directly
into the lightning adapter like so and
again same problem sits there on off on
off on off so it doesn't even charge
correctly so I guess that pretty much
confirms and again nothing on the screen
to say that has anything connected it
still says not connected so I guess that
confirms that that doesn't work with a
white cable adapter but for fun let's
just try if I unplug the Y cable and I
take a standard USB cable from Apple
again apologies for the shaky cameras on
this it's so anyway I could really do it
and again we'll plug the lightning
adapter directly in well first of all
again we'll show you what happens if I
plug this directly in via USB into the
iPod Classic and we get on the screen as
it's reading
not supportive that's the reason being
because it hasn't got the white cable so
which is not surprising but at least it
actually did try to read the device okay
so it's unplug that and plug the Y
adapter sorry not the way that I've did
a lightning adapter into the original 30
pin connector which is so it would look
like this now let's try that in the
iPhone 5 and see what happens oops okay
noise says reading now again not
supported so it's the same as before but
similarly with the what it was doing
with the the classic but similarly or
what differently I should say is that
it's actually charging the iPhone 5 this
time I'm not just zipping in and then
zipping out well who's doing before when
I had the white cable plugged in so I'm
guessing some kind of software update is
required from BMW to get these to work
correctly a bit of a shame but for now
it doesn't look like the lightning
adapter into the white cable and into
your iPhone 5 will bring up anything on
your iPhone to be able to connect it
into the iDrive system of course you can
just use a auxiliary cable just the
standard double-ended three and a half
mil connector into the iPhone 5 into the
auxiliary and and then play the the
whatever media off your phone itself and
that will work but you can't use any of
the iDrive features on from the phone
directly into the dashboard of the car
so hopefully this provides some
information some of the people out there
and please rate and subscribe and thanks
for watching
you